docs/developers/faucet.md, before:

<!--
order: 2
-->

# Faucet

Check how to obtain testnet tokens from the Evmos faucet website {synopsis}

The Evmos Testnet Faucet distributes small amounts of {{ $themeConfig.project.testnet_denom }} to anyone who can provide a valid testnet address for free. Request funds from the faucet either by using the [Keplr Wallet](../guides/keys-wallets/keplr.md) or follow the instructions on this page.

::: tip
Follow the [Metamask](./../guides/keys-wallets/metamask.md), [Keplr](./../users/wallets/keplr.md) or [Keyring](./../users/keys/keyring.md) guides for more info on how to setup your wallet account.
:::

## Request tokens

You can request tokens for the testnet by using the Evmos [faucet](https://faucet.evmos.dev).
Simply fill in your address on the input field in Bech32 (`evmos1...`) or Hex (`0x...`) format.

::: warning
If you use your Bech32 address, make sure you input the [account address](./../technical_concepts/accounts#addresses-and-public-keys) (`evmos1...`) and **NOT** the validator operator address (`evmosvaloper1...`)
:::

![faucet site](./../img/faucet_web_page.png)

## Rate limits

To prevent the faucet account from draining the available funds, the Evmos testnet faucet
imposes a maximum number of request for a period of time. By default the faucet service accepts 1
request per day per address. All addresses **must** be authenticated using
ReCAPTCHA before requesting tokens.

## Amount

For each request, the faucet transfers 1 {{ $themeConfig.project.testnet_denom }} to the given address.

## Faucet Addresses

The public faucet addresses for the testnet are:

- **Hex**: [`0xBaE9A7A2210F94511F5050348251d0d7113E2cE3`](https://evm.evmos.dev/address/0xBaE9A7A2210F94511F5050348251d0d7113E2cE3/transactions)
- **Bech32**: [`evmos1ht560g3pp729z86s2q6gy5ws6ugnut8r4uhyth`](https://testnet.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1ht560g3pp729z86s2q6gy5ws6ugnut8r4uhyth)

Commit message:

docs: update keplr document (#534)
* update keplr doc

* address comments

* Apply suggestions from code review

* lint

Co-authored-by: Federico Kunze Küllmer <31522760+fedekunze@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Federico Kunze Küllmer <federico.kunze94@gmail.com>

docs/developers/faucet.md, after:

<!--
order: 2
-->

# Faucet

Check how to obtain testnet tokens from the Evmos faucet website {synopsis}

The Evmos Testnet Faucet distributes small amounts of {{ $themeConfig.project.testnet_denom }} to anyone who can provide a valid testnet address for free. Request funds from the faucet either by using the [Keplr Wallet](../guides/keys-wallets/keplr.md) or follow the instructions on this page.

::: tip
Follow the [Metamask](./../guides/keys-wallets/metamask.md), [Keplr](./../users/wallets/keplr.md) or [Keyring](./../users/keys/keyring.md) guides for more info on how to setup your wallet account.
:::

## Request Testnet tokens

Once you are signed in to the Keplr extension, visit the [Faucet](https://faucet.evmos.dev/) to request tokens for the testnet. Click the `Request Funds with Keplr` button. Then approve the both following pop ups `Chain Add Request` and `Request Connection` to add the {{ $themeConfig.project.name }} testnet chain (`evmos_{{ $themeConfig.project.testnet_chain_id }}-{{ $themeConfig.project.testnet_version_number }}`) to Keplr and approve the connection.

![chain add request](./../img/keplr_approve_chain.png)

After approval, you can see a transaction confirmation informing you that {{ $themeConfig.project.testnet_denom }} have been successfully transferred to your [evmos address](../../users/technical_concepts/accounts#address-formats-for-clients) on the testnet.

::: warning
**Note**: only Ethereum compatible addresses (i.e `eth_secp256k1` keys) are supported on Evmos.
:::

![chain add request](./../img/keplr_transaction.png)

Alternatively you can also fill in your address on the input field in Bech32 (`evmos1...`) or Hex (`0x...`) format.

::: warning
If you use your Bech32 address, make sure you input the [account address](./../technical_concepts/accounts#addresses-and-public-keys) (`evmos1...`) and **NOT** the validator operator address (`evmosvaloper1...`)
:::

![faucet site](./../img/faucet_web_page.png)

View your account balance either by clicking on the Keplr extension or by [interacting with the node](../../quickstart/interact_node).

::: tip
**Note**: Keplr might not display the amount of {{ $themeConfig.project.testnet_denom }} transferred by the faucet, as it might be smaller than the number of decimals displayed in the Keplr extension.
:::

## Rate limits

::: tip
All addresses **MUST** be authenticated using ReCAPTCHA before requesting tokens.
:::

To prevent the faucet account from draining the available funds, the Evmos testnet faucet imposes a maximum number of requests for a period of time. By default, the faucet service accepts 1 request per day per address. You can request {{ $themeConfig.project.testnet_denom }} from the [Faucet](./../../developers/faucet) for each address only once every 24h. If you try to request multiple times within the 24h cooldown phase, no transaction will be initiated. Please try again in 24 hours.

## Amount

For each request, the faucet transfers 1 {{ $themeConfig.project.testnet_denom }} to the given address.

## Faucet Addresses

The public faucet addresses for the testnet are:

- **Hex**: [`0xBaE9A7A2210F94511F5050348251d0d7113E2cE3`](https://evm.evmos.dev/address/0xBaE9A7A2210F94511F5050348251d0d7113E2cE3/transactions)
- **Bech32**: [`evmos1ht560g3pp729z86s2q6gy5ws6ugnut8r4uhyth`](https://testnet.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1ht560g3pp729z86s2q6gy5ws6ugnut8r4uhyth)
